articles/advertising-and-morals.md, before:

# Why Surveillance Advertising is evil
- Mass surveillance with no oversight has been achieved already
  - *leave no doubt that the things I'm talking about are not hypotheticals but real issues that exist today*
- The government now has a vested interest in keeping the web concentrated into a few large companies they can control
  - *There is a techno-libertarian angle here that I should cautiously play into*
  - *Maybe form a hypothesis here about why a decentralized web has not emerged*
  - It's a 2 way street. The incumbent tech giants get lobbying power out of it and are allowed to
  merge and acquire without impediment from the federal government
- It adds an unacceptable amount of bloat to web pages, which is an environmental concern
  - *Here we can hook a lot of people with the broadly known moral dilemma of environmental concerns*
  - *This is also a chance to add some hard numbers*
- It is opaque to users. People are creeped out by it because they fundamentally don't understand how it works or the extent to which they are being surveilled.
  - *Here we can be anecdotal and relate to a lot of experiences that have become commonplace
    - e.g. talking aloud about something and then being shown ads for it*
- It is an industry built on bending the truth
  - *Maybe talk here about historical restrictions on advertising and how they are being subverted*
- It has large potential for abuse as a propaganda machine
  - *Here we can make note of history and how propaganda is inherently perceived as negative in the US*
- *At some point in this opening we need to address common retorts*
  - What do you have to hide? 
    - Point to the propaganda machine, relate to fears of scarlet lettering of coronavirus victims
  - No one can do things as well as ${fav-tech-giant}
    - This is more of a defense of technocracy and big business than it is of surveillance advertising. It just posits that one is not possible without the other. While I believe both are bad, it is a mistake to assume that Google could not exist without ubiquitous surveillance. For a different essay, we can talk about how Amazon could be broken up and still serve all the needs of its customers.
  - I would rather have targeted ads than untargeted ads, they are more relevant.
    - The choice is not between relevant and unrelevant, but between hyper-relevant and also they are surveilling you vs relevant based on the content of the page you are on and they don't get to surveill you.
    - Targeted ads are often based on weak inference logic. I see ads because they *think* I may be a likely buyer based on everything else they know about me. This gets my interests very wrong a lot of the time, but no one seems to talk about it.
  - There are no good replacements for (gmail, google docs, IG, FB, Amazon, etc..)
    - Well I wonder why? See symbiotic government/corporate surveillance points above
    - There is no *technical* reason that someone couldn't run a gmail clone that just charges a nominal fee instead of tracking you. You can host one yourself if you are savvy enough. 
      - *Maybe list some alternatives here*

# My experience in advertising
- At first I was lying to clients about our capabilities, which was fine because I didn't want 
my company to have said capabilities.
- Then we acquired Epsilon and we gained some of those capabilities in the US. Now the problem was
not lying to clients but lying to the public.
- Product managers (and the vast majority of the company) not allowed to see behind the curtain
- Shady data dealers

# Why I stayed for so long even though I knew it was hypocritical
- My hypocrisy
  - I run an ad blocker
  - I believe the moral arguments listed above
  - I knew within a year that my company was slimy
- They paid well, with good benefits and health insurance
  - Time to note here that employment based health insurance is evil
- I had an exit point in my mind
  - Early retirement
    - It felt noble to save my money, to be responsible where so many including the federal government were not
    - Once I had saved enough money to not have to work then I wouldn't have to work for evil companies and I could be more picky
    - This is horse shit
    - I compromised my morals for the idea of an easier life based on acquiring an amount of financial resources that most people never will.
    - I made myself think everything is fine because this goal seems so attainable to me
    - I wanted to essentially be a bottom dweller of the ruling class
      - *Should make more effort to define the ruling class here*

# A new plan
  - Work should not be avoided. I will largely be judged at my funeral by the work I have done to help others. 
  - If my plan was to make enough money so that I could help people without worrying about financial security then my priorities were backwards
    - I should help people first and worry about money second.
  - If I fundamentally recuse myself from the working world with early retirement than I have forsaken any hope of solidarity with the people I claim to want to help
  - Early retirement can still be a great thing. Less financial obligations does mean that I can focus more on helping people. However, I should not compromise my morals to do so, and I should not use some vague notion of future ability to do good to justify doing wrong right here and now. 
  - 

## *Potential prompt for another article* 
- Are network effects inherently evil? What's the difference between a network effect and an anticompetitive monopoly. How do venture funded firms seek to leverage the prior into the latter. 
- What to do about it? Can simple regulations like forced interoperability save us from the common scenario where a single entity controls an entire network and all the market power that comes with it?
  - simple regulations
    - no loopholes or edge cases
    - low potential for court battles over the meaning or enforcement policy

Commit message:

Updates to the advertising and morals outline

articles/advertising-and-morals.md, after:

# Why Surveillance Advertising is evil
- Mass surveillance with no oversight has been achieved already
  - *leave no doubt that the things I'm talking about are not hypotheticals but real issues that exist today*
- The government now has a vested interest in keeping the web concentrated into a few large companies they can control
  - *There is a techno-libertarian angle here that I should cautiously play into*
  - *Maybe form a hypothesis here about why a decentralized web has not emerged*
  - It's a 2 way street. The incumbent tech giants get lobbying power out of it and are allowed to
  merge and acquire without impediment from the federal government
- It adds an unacceptable amount of bloat to web pages, which is an environmental concern
  - *Here we can hook a lot of people with the broadly known moral dilemma of environmental concerns*
  - *This is also a chance to add some hard numbers*
- It is opaque to users. People are creeped out by it because they fundamentally don't understand how it works or the extent to which they are being surveilled.
  - *Here we can be anecdotal and relate to a lot of experiences that have become commonplace
    - e.g. talking aloud about something and then being shown ads for it*
- It is an industry built on bending the truth
  - *Maybe talk here about historical restrictions on advertising and how they are being subverted*
- It has large potential for abuse as a propaganda machine
  - *Here we can make note of history and how propaganda is inherently perceived as negative in the US*
- *At some point in this opening we need to address common retorts*
  - What do you have to hide? 
    - Point to the propaganda machine, relate to fears of scarlet lettering of coronavirus victims
  - No one can do things as well as ${fav-tech-giant}
    - This is more of a defense of technocracy and big business than it is of surveillance advertising. It just posits that one is not possible without the other. While I believe both are bad, it is a mistake to assume that Google could not exist without ubiquitous surveillance. For a different essay, we can talk about how Amazon could be broken up and still serve all the needs of its customers.
  - I would rather have targeted ads than untargeted ads, they are more relevant.
    - The choice is not between relevant and unrelevant, but between hyper-relevant and also they are surveilling you vs relevant based on the content of the page you are on and they don't get to surveill you.
    - Targeted ads are often based on weak inference logic. I see ads because they *think* I may be a likely buyer based on everything else they know about me. This gets my interests very wrong a lot of the time, but no one seems to talk about it.
  - There are no good replacements for (gmail, google docs, IG, FB, Amazon, etc..)
    - Well I wonder why? See symbiotic government/corporate surveillance points above
    - There is no *technical* reason that someone couldn't run a gmail clone that just charges a nominal fee instead of tracking you. You can host one yourself if you are savvy enough. 
      - *Maybe list some alternatives here*

# My experience in advertising
- At first I was lying to clients about our capabilities, which was fine because I didn't want 
my company to have said capabilities.
- Then we acquired Epsilon and we gained some of those capabilities in the US. Now the problem was
not lying to clients but lying to the public.
- Product managers (and the vast majority of the company) not allowed to see behind the curtain
- Shady data dealers

# Why I stayed for so long even though I knew it was hypocritical
- My hypocrisy
  - I run an ad blocker
  - I believe the moral arguments listed above
  - I knew within a year that my company was slimy
- They paid well, with good benefits and health insurance
  - Time to note here that employment based health insurance is evil
- I had an exit point in my mind
  - Early retirement
    - It felt noble to save my money, to be responsible where so many including the federal government were not
    - Once I had saved enough money to not have to work then I wouldn't have to work for evil companies and I could be more picky
    - This is horse shit
    - I compromised my morals for the idea of an easier life based on acquiring an amount of financial resources that most people never will.
    - I made myself think everything is fine because this goal seems so attainable to me
    - I wanted to essentially be a bottom dweller of the ruling class
      - *Should make more effort to define the ruling class here*

# A new plan
- Work should not be avoided. I will largely be judged at my funeral by the work I have done to help others. 
- If my plan was to make enough money so that I could help people without worrying about financial security then my priorities were backwards
  - I should help people first and worry about money second.
- If I fundamentally recuse myself from the working world with early retirement than I have forsaken any hope of solidarity with the people I claim to want to help
- Early retirement can still be a great thing. Less financial obligations does mean that I can focus more on helping people. However, I should not compromise my morals to do so, and I should not use some vague notion of future ability to do good to justify doing wrong right here and now. 
- I'm quitting the industry immediately
- 

## Postmortem (or how to avoid making the same mistake again)
- 

## Other reasons I'm leaving
- The company does not value security to the extent that it should
  - Our data is so-called "anonymized", but there's nothing stopping someone from de-anonymizing it 
  by matching it against a data set that is not anonymous
    - datasets that very much exist, and are attainable by hackers, especially state-sponsored hackers
- The company lies to both the public and its clients
- The company's CEO pushes PR campaigns for wastes of money like marcel that have no use other than generating buzz around an incoming CEO
- The company's response to the market power of Google and Facebook has been to attempt to gather market power of its own by buying rolling up the rest of the advertising industry
- Product decisions are based on what will win a pitch rather than what will make a good product

## *Potential prompt for another article* 
- Are network effects inherently evil? What's the difference between a network effect and an anticompetitive monopoly. How do venture funded firms seek to leverage the prior into the latter. 
- What to do about it? Can simple regulations like forced interoperability save us from the common scenario where a single entity controls an entire network and all the market power that comes with it?
  - simple regulations
    - no loopholes or edge cases
    - low potential for court battles over the meaning or enforcement policy
